README.md, before:

# The Perfect Shop - AI Operations Copilot

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Completed-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/your-repo/theperfectshop)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://python.org)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.104+-green.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com)
[![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.47+-red.svg)](https://streamlit.io)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)

An AI-powered inventory management system that provides intelligent insights, risk analysis, and action recommendations for retail operations. Built with FastAPI backend and Streamlit frontend, featuring advanced AI integration through Groq LLM.

![The Perfect Shop Screenshot](https://via.placeholder.com/800x400/1a1a1a/ffffff?text=The+Perfect+Shop+AI+Operations+Copilot)

## 🚀 Features

### 🤖 AI-Powered Analysis
- **Intelligent Insights**: AI-driven inventory analysis with executive summaries
- **Action Recommendations**: Prioritized suggestions for markdown, transfers, and reorders
- **Conversational AI**: Natural language interface for inventory queries
- **Risk Assessment**: Automated risk scoring with confidence metrics

### 💼 Professional Interface
- **Glass-morphism Design**: Modern, translucent UI with smooth animations
- **Tab Navigation**: Intuitive navigation between Dashboard, AI Insights, Risk Analysis, and Chatbot
- **Responsive Layout**: Works seamlessly on desktop and tablet devices
- **Dark Theme**: Professional dark containers with blue accent colors

### 📊 Comprehensive Dashboard
- **Real-time Metrics**: Key performance indicators and savings projections
- **What-if Simulations**: Interactive scenario planning tools
- **Data Visualization**: Charts and graphs for inventory insights
- **Export Capabilities**: Download analysis results and reports

### 🔐 User Management
- **Secure Authentication**: Login system with session management
- **User Profiles**: Personal dashboard with activity tracking
- **Preferences**: Customizable AI settings and optimization strategies
- **Access Control**: Role-based navigation and feature access

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Backend (FastAPI)
```
backend/
├── app/
│   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   ├── routes_ai.py     # AI operations
│   │   ├── routes_preferences.py  # User preferences
│   │   └── routes_news.py   # News events
│   ├── services/            # Business logic
│   │   ├── groq_client.py   # AI integration
│   │   ├── action_engine.py # Recommendations
│   │   ├── context_builder.py # Data aggregation
│   │   └── scoring.py       # Risk assessment
│   └── db/                  # Database layer
│       ├── models.py        # Data models
│       └── session.py       # Database connection
├── requirements.txt         # Dependencies
└── setup_database_sqlite.py # Database setup
```

### Frontend (Streamlit)
```
frontend/
├── streamlit_app.py         # Main application
├── sample_inventory.csv     # Test data
└── assets/                  # Static files
    └── Background.png       # UI assets
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager
- Internet connection (for AI features)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-repo/theperfectshop.git
   cd theperfectshop
   ```

2. **Set up the backend**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   python setup_database_sqlite.py
   ```

3. **Install frontend dependencies**
   ```bash
   cd ../frontend
   pip install streamlit pandas requests
   ```

4. **Configure environment**
   ```bash
   # Create .env file in backend directory
   echo "GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key_here" > backend/.env
   ```

### Running the Application

1. **Start the backend server**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   python -m uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

2. **Start the frontend application**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   python -m streamlit run streamlit_app.py --server.port 8501
   ```

3. **Access the application**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:8501
   - Backend API: http://localhost:8000
   - API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Getting Started

1. **Upload Your Data**
   - Use the sidebar to upload a CSV file with your inventory data
   - Preview the data and click "Confirm & Continue"
   - Navigation tabs will become available

2. **Explore AI Insights**
   - Navigate to the "AI Insights" tab
   - Click "Get AI Insights" to analyze your data
   - Review recommendations and confidence scores

3. **Use the AI Chatbot**
   - Go to the "AI Chatbot" tab
   - Ask questions about your inventory in natural language
   - Get contextual responses with data citations

4. **View Dashboard Metrics**
   - Check the "Dashboard" tab for key metrics
   - Use the what-if simulator for scenario planning
   - Monitor savings projections and risk indicators

5. **Manage Your Profile**
   - Login using the bottom-left login button (admin/admin123)
   - Access your profile to view activity and preferences
   - Customize AI settings for your specific needs

### CSV Data Format

Your CSV file should include these columns:
```csv
store_id,sku_id,batch_id,product_name,category,on_hand_qty,expiry_date,cost_per_unit,selling_price
STORE001,SKU001,BATCH001,Fresh Apples,Fruits,50,2024-01-15,2.50,4.00
```

## 🔧 API Reference

### AI Operations
- `POST /ai/insights` - Generate AI insights and recommendations
- `POST /ai/chat` - Conversational AI interface
- `POST /ai/feedback` - Record user feedback

### User Management
- `GET /preferences/` - Retrieve user preferences
- `POST /preferences/` - Update user preferences

### Data Management
- `GET /news/` - Retrieve news events
- `POST /news/` - Create news events

For detailed API documentation, visit http://localhost:8000/docs when the backend is running.

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Backend Tests
```bash
cd backend
python test_ai_endpoints.py
python test_basic_endpoints.py
python test_groq_connection.py
```

### Test with Sample Data
```bash
cd backend
python demo_all_features.py
```

### Frontend Testing
1. Upload the provided `sample_inventory.csv`
2. Test all navigation tabs
3. Try the AI chatbot with sample questions
4. Test login functionality

## 🔒 Security

### Authentication
- Session-based authentication system
- Secure credential handling
- Logout functionality with session cleanup

### Data Protection
- Input validation and sanitization
- Secure API communication
- No sensitive data in error messages

### API Security
- CORS configuration
- Rate limiting ready
- Comprehensive error handling

## 📊 Performance

### Response Times
- AI Insights: <5 seconds
- Page Navigation: <500ms
- CSV Upload: <10 seconds (10MB files)
- API Endpoints: <1 second

### Scalability
- Supports 10+ concurrent users
- Handles 10,000+ inventory items
- Efficient memory usage
- Database optimization ready

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure
```
theperfectshop/
├── backend/                 # FastAPI backend
├── frontend/                # Streamlit frontend
├── expiryshield/           # Additional modules
├── REQUIREMENTS.md         # Detailed requirements
├── PROJECT_COMPLETION_REPORT.md  # Project report
└── README.md               # This file
```

### Development Setup
1. Follow the installation steps above
2. Use `--reload` flag for auto-reloading during development
3. Check the logs for debugging information
4. Use the test scripts to validate changes

### Contributing
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Requirements](REQUIREMENTS.md)**: Detailed system requirements and specifications
- **[Completion Report](PROJECT_COMPLETION_REPORT.md)**: Comprehensive project completion report
- **[API Docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)**: Interactive API documentation (when backend is running)

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Backend won't start:**
- Check if port 8000 is available
- Verify Python version (3.8+)
- Install missing dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

**Frontend connection errors:**
- Ensure backend is running on port 8000
- Check network connectivity
- Verify API endpoints are accessible

**AI features not working:**
- Confirm Groq API key is set correctly
- Check internet connection
- Verify API key has sufficient credits

**CSV upload fails:**
- Check file format matches expected columns
- Ensure file size is under 10MB
- Verify CSV encoding (UTF-8 recommended)

### Getting Help
- Check the logs for detailed error messages
- Review the API documentation at `/docs`
- Ensure all dependencies are installed correctly
- Verify environment variables are set properly

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Groq**: For providing the AI language model API
- **FastAPI**: For the excellent web framework
- **Streamlit**: For rapid frontend development
- **SQLAlchemy**: For robust database management

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- Create an issue in the GitHub repository
- Check the troubleshooting section above
- Review the comprehensive documentation

---

**Status**: ✅ Production Ready  
**Version**: 1.0.0  
**Last Updated**: December 30, 2025

Built with ❤️ for modern inventory management

Commit message:

feat: Fix environment variable loading and update documentation
- Add python-dotenv to requirements.txt for proper .env file loading
- Update main.py to load environment variables from .env file
- Fix README.md to reflect operations_ai as default branch
- Add repository links and branch-specific instructions
- Create test_env_loading.py script to verify API key configuration
- Update clone instructions and contributing guidelines
- Add branch badge and prominent notice about operations_ai branch

This ensures the Groq API key is properly loaded from the .env file
and the documentation accurately reflects the current project state.

README.md, after:

# The Perfect Shop - AI Operations Copilot

[![Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Completed-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/HoneyThapa/ThePerfectShop)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://python.org)
[![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.104+-green.svg)](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com)
[![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.47+-red.svg)](https://streamlit.io)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Branch](https://img.shields.io/badge/Default_Branch-operations__ai-blue.svg)](https://github.com/HoneyThapa/ThePerfectShop/tree/operations_ai)

An AI-powered inventory management system that provides intelligent insights, risk analysis, and action recommendations for retail operations. Built with FastAPI backend and Streamlit frontend, featuring advanced AI integration through Groq LLM.

> **📌 Important**: The main development branch is `operations_ai`. This branch contains the latest stable version with all AI features and UI improvements. Clone and checkout this branch for the complete experience.

![The Perfect Shop Screenshot](https://via.placeholder.com/800x400/1a1a1a/ffffff?text=The+Perfect+Shop+AI+Operations+Copilot)

## 🚀 Features

### 🤖 AI-Powered Analysis
- **Intelligent Insights**: AI-driven inventory analysis with executive summaries
- **Action Recommendations**: Prioritized suggestions for markdown, transfers, and reorders
- **Conversational AI**: Natural language interface for inventory queries
- **Risk Assessment**: Automated risk scoring with confidence metrics

### 💼 Professional Interface
- **Glass-morphism Design**: Modern, translucent UI with smooth animations
- **Tab Navigation**: Intuitive navigation between Dashboard, AI Insights, Risk Analysis, and Chatbot
- **Responsive Layout**: Works seamlessly on desktop and tablet devices
- **Dark Theme**: Professional dark containers with blue accent colors

### 📊 Comprehensive Dashboard
- **Real-time Metrics**: Key performance indicators and savings projections
- **What-if Simulations**: Interactive scenario planning tools
- **Data Visualization**: Charts and graphs for inventory insights
- **Export Capabilities**: Download analysis results and reports

### 🔐 User Management
- **Secure Authentication**: Login system with session management
- **User Profiles**: Personal dashboard with activity tracking
- **Preferences**: Customizable AI settings and optimization strategies
- **Access Control**: Role-based navigation and feature access

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Backend (FastAPI)
```
backend/
├── app/
│   ├── api/                 # API endpoints
│   │   ├── routes_ai.py     # AI operations
│   │   ├── routes_preferences.py  # User preferences
│   │   └── routes_news.py   # News events
│   ├── services/            # Business logic
│   │   ├── groq_client.py   # AI integration
│   │   ├── action_engine.py # Recommendations
│   │   ├── context_builder.py # Data aggregation
│   │   └── scoring.py       # Risk assessment
│   └── db/                  # Database layer
│       ├── models.py        # Data models
│       └── session.py       # Database connection
├── requirements.txt         # Dependencies
└── setup_database_sqlite.py # Database setup
```

### Frontend (Streamlit)
```
frontend/
├── streamlit_app.py         # Main application
├── sample_inventory.csv     # Test data
└── assets/                  # Static files
    └── Background.png       # UI assets
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager
- Internet connection (for AI features)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/HoneyThapa/ThePerfectShop.git
   cd ThePerfectShop
   git checkout operations_ai  # Switch to the main development branch
   ```

2. **Set up the backend**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   python setup_database_sqlite.py
   ```

3. **Install frontend dependencies**
   ```bash
   cd ../frontend
   pip install streamlit pandas requests
   ```

4. **Configure environment**
   ```bash
   # Create .env file in backend directory
   echo "GROQ_API_KEY=your_groq_api_key_here" > backend/.env
   ```

### Running the Application

1. **Start the backend server**
   ```bash
   cd backend
   python -m uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

2. **Start the frontend application**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   python -m streamlit run streamlit_app.py --server.port 8501
   ```

3. **Access the application**
   - Frontend: http://localhost:8501
   - Backend API: http://localhost:8000
   - API Documentation: http://localhost:8000/docs

## 📖 Usage Guide

### Getting Started

1. **Upload Your Data**
   - Use the sidebar to upload a CSV file with your inventory data
   - Preview the data and click "Confirm & Continue"
   - Navigation tabs will become available

2. **Explore AI Insights**
   - Navigate to the "AI Insights" tab
   - Click "Get AI Insights" to analyze your data
   - Review recommendations and confidence scores

3. **Use the AI Chatbot**
   - Go to the "AI Chatbot" tab
   - Ask questions about your inventory in natural language
   - Get contextual responses with data citations

4. **View Dashboard Metrics**
   - Check the "Dashboard" tab for key metrics
   - Use the what-if simulator for scenario planning
   - Monitor savings projections and risk indicators

5. **Manage Your Profile**
   - Login using the bottom-left login button (admin/admin123)
   - Access your profile to view activity and preferences
   - Customize AI settings for your specific needs

### CSV Data Format

Your CSV file should include these columns:
```csv
store_id,sku_id,batch_id,product_name,category,on_hand_qty,expiry_date,cost_per_unit,selling_price
STORE001,SKU001,BATCH001,Fresh Apples,Fruits,50,2024-01-15,2.50,4.00
```

## 🔧 API Reference

### AI Operations
- `POST /ai/insights` - Generate AI insights and recommendations
- `POST /ai/chat` - Conversational AI interface
- `POST /ai/feedback` - Record user feedback

### User Management
- `GET /preferences/` - Retrieve user preferences
- `POST /preferences/` - Update user preferences

### Data Management
- `GET /news/` - Retrieve news events
- `POST /news/` - Create news events

For detailed API documentation, visit http://localhost:8000/docs when the backend is running.

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Backend Tests
```bash
cd backend
python test_ai_endpoints.py
python test_basic_endpoints.py
python test_groq_connection.py
```

### Test with Sample Data
```bash
cd backend
python demo_all_features.py
```

### Frontend Testing
1. Upload the provided `sample_inventory.csv`
2. Test all navigation tabs
3. Try the AI chatbot with sample questions
4. Test login functionality

## 🔒 Security

### Authentication
- Session-based authentication system
- Secure credential handling
- Logout functionality with session cleanup

### Data Protection
- Input validation and sanitization
- Secure API communication
- No sensitive data in error messages

### API Security
- CORS configuration
- Rate limiting ready
- Comprehensive error handling

## 📊 Performance

### Response Times
- AI Insights: <5 seconds
- Page Navigation: <500ms
- CSV Upload: <10 seconds (10MB files)
- API Endpoints: <1 second

### Scalability
- Supports 10+ concurrent users
- Handles 10,000+ inventory items
- Efficient memory usage
- Database optimization ready

## 🛠️ Development

### Project Structure
```
theperfectshop/
├── backend/                 # FastAPI backend
├── frontend/                # Streamlit frontend
├── expiryshield/           # Additional modules
├── REQUIREMENTS.md         # Detailed requirements
├── PROJECT_COMPLETION_REPORT.md  # Project report
└── README.md               # This file
```

### Development Setup
1. Follow the installation steps above
2. Use `--reload` flag for auto-reloading during development
3. Check the logs for debugging information
4. Use the test scripts to validate changes

### Contributing
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch from `operations_ai`
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request to `operations_ai` branch

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Requirements](REQUIREMENTS.md)**: Detailed system requirements and specifications
- **[Completion Report](PROJECT_COMPLETION_REPORT.md)**: Comprehensive project completion report
- **[API Docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)**: Interactive API documentation (when backend is running)

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Backend won't start:**
- Check if port 8000 is available
- Verify Python version (3.8+)
- Install missing dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

**Frontend connection errors:**
- Ensure backend is running on port 8000
- Check network connectivity
- Verify API endpoints are accessible

**AI features not working:**
- Confirm Groq API key is set correctly
- Check internet connection
- Verify API key has sufficient credits

**CSV upload fails:**
- Check file format matches expected columns
- Ensure file size is under 10MB
- Verify CSV encoding (UTF-8 recommended)

### Getting Help
- Create an issue in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/HoneyThapa/ThePerfectShop)
- Check the troubleshooting section above
- Review the comprehensive documentation
- Use the `operations_ai` branch for the latest features

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Groq**: For providing the AI language model API
- **FastAPI**: For the excellent web framework
- **Streamlit**: For rapid frontend development
- **SQLAlchemy**: For robust database management

## 📞 Support

For support and questions:
- Create an issue in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/HoneyThapa/ThePerfectShop)
- Check the troubleshooting section above
- Review the comprehensive documentation
- Use the `operations_ai` branch for the latest stable version

---

**Status**: ✅ Production Ready  
**Version**: 1.0.0  
**Default Branch**: `operations_ai`  
**Last Updated**: December 30, 2025

Built with ❤️ for modern inventory management
